Topic : Protecting Your Password
-----------------------------------
Typing your password into the command-line interface is insecure. 
It can be easily retrieved from listing the operating system’s running processes.

You have two options besides specifying the password on the command line with the --password parameter. 

The first option is to use the parameter -P that will instruct Sqoop to read the password from standard input. 
Alternatively, you can save your password in a file and specify the path to this file with the parameter --password-file.

1st Solution
-------------
Here’s a Sqoop execution that will read the password from standard input:
    sqoop import \
        --connect jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306 \
        --username root \
        --table cities \
        -P

The above method, using the parameter -P, will instruct Sqoop to prompt the user for the password before any other Sqoop
action is taken. 

An example prompt is shown below:
    sqoop import -P --connect ...
    Enter password:
    
You can type any characters into the prompt and then press the Enter key once you are done. 
Sqoop will not echo any characters, preventing someone from reading the password on your screen. 
All entered characters will be loaded and used as the password (except for the final enter). 
This method is very secure, as the password is not stored anywhere and is loaded on every Sqoop execution directly from the user. 
The downside is that it can’t be easily automated with a script.
   
   
2nd Solution
--------------
Here’s an example of reading the password from a file:
    sqoop import \
        --connect jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306 \
        --username root \
        --table cities \
        --password-file my-sqoop-password
        
        
The above solution, using the parameter --password-file, will load the password from any specified file on your HDFS cluster. 
In order for this method to be secure, you need to store the file inside your home directory and set the file’s permissions to 400, so no one else can open the file and fetch the password. 
This method for securing your password can be easily automated with a script and is the recommended option if you need to securely automate your Sqoop workflow.
You can use the following shell and Hadoop commands to create and secure your password file:
    echo "my-secret-password" > sqoop.password
    hadoop dfs -put sqoop.password /user/$USER/sqoop.password
    hadoop dfs -chown 400 /user/$USER/sqoop.password